- [Instructor] Cryptography is literally
translated from Greek as the study of secrets.
In computer science, we are looking
for developing strategies and practices
for protecting the most sensitive data
at rest, and in motion.
Hi, my name is Frank Moley.
I am a software technology
and security developer and architect.
I spend much of my time writing software
for globally distributed systems where
the privacy and secrecy of data is of the utmost importance.
I have been involved in the software industry
in many different aspects for over 16 years.
In this course, we will start with some very basic
crypto concepts to level set
about the terminology that we will use.
We will then take a look at how the JDK
organizes its interfaces and providers
while focusing on the built-in JDK provider,
the Java cryptography extensions.
From there, we will look at the various engines
at play in the JDK to allow the developer
to do his or her job in a secure fashion.
This course is not designed to teach cryptography,
but instead to teach you the basics of how
to consume the crypto libraries in Java.
So with that, let's get ready to secure some data.